## I Eat All My Friends

Haruki Murakami has the extraordinary and unique ability to portray complex emotions namelessly: to bring forth tears without a mention of tragedy and to summon grief without death. His 2005 short story "Year of Spaghetti" is this technique's power embodied, evoking within the reader a tremendous sense of melancholic loneliness while writing of nothing but food. This story - on its surface about a man's love for spaghetti and a seemingly unrelated phone call from a friend's ex-girlfriend - uses spaghetti as a stand-in for something else, something not entirely clear until the very end. Even when this clarity is brought, however, the intricacies of the analogy don't make themselves plain. The analogy's beauty comes in this seeming incomparability: Murakami implies the lack of one through the presence of another, ascribing absence to something ever present.
In order to untangle this relationship, the existence of there being one at all must first be established. Most obviously, the final sentence draws a direct connection between the two - "Can you imagine how astonished the Italians would be if they knew that what they were exporting in 1971 was really *loneliness*?" (Murakami 6). This connection, despite being at the very end of the story, could be seen as the initial one - the line that sparks within the reader the recognition of the spaghetti's true meaning and forces them to reinterpret everything they've so far learned about it. The reader must now go back - whether by physically rereading the text or by simply retracing the story in their minds - and supplant each occurrence of "spaghetti" with "loneliness".
First, the food itself. Spaghetti, the narrator posits, is "a dish best enjoyed alone" (Murakami 1). At the same time, however, he acts as if he doesn't want to enjoy it alone. Not only is he always imagining - perhaps even fantasizing - that someone might join him, but he also prepares enough spaghetti for more than just himself, enough to fill his massive bowl to the point of overflow, and enough to have plenty of leftovers. These lines call into question the first, make his "certainty" that the meal is for one and only one seem more like a self-imposed rule, in place only to disguise the lack of anyone who would join him.
Thus far, the titular dish has been only the representation of loneliness, but the tangible connection between the two - the connection that lies beyond how the food is portrayed and described - becomes clear in the story's second half. Here, spaghetti becomes the narrator's instinctive escape from the possibility of socializing over the phone. It becomes the block that keeps him silent ("I can't talk. The spaghetti will be ruined" on page five) as well as the distraction that keeps him focussed and busy (also on page 5).
Most obscurely, Murakami writes that spaghetti is "the trampled-down shadow of time" (Murakami 2). This, along with snippets that describe the spaghetti as something to be mourned (on page three), and as something nearly alive (on page two), imply a meaning stretching beyond the single concept of being alone. The strands begin to take on the role of not being the distraction from others, but the replacement. At the same time, the narrator recognizes that they *aren't* alive and can't be - an object given life in one's mind is nothing but a shadow of real life. In the same way, time spent giving life is nothing but the shadow of time spent connecting. Towards the end, it can even be seen that he imagines others to be spaghetti too - comparing indirectly the girl and her issues to a pot of unfinished spaghetti at the end of page five. In this way, the real becomes the shadow. Nothing is truly alive, therefore loneliness is inevitable and spaghetti is a perfectly suitable replacement for people.