## An 18 year old's reflection of their 20s

There are three ideas that have fascinated me in my life: God, Death, and the Unknowable. Not especially in that order, nor were any of the three ever-present in my thoughts, but in a sort of unconscious way I think my mind was always ruled by that triumvirate. Though the benefit of time has certainly changed my perspectives on these subjects, that change is not what I was waiting for as I stalled putting my ideologies on paper. Rather, I was afraid to commit to ink. Afraid that by writing down my thoughts they’d be sealed. And most afraid that by questioning the future I might concrete my own.
___
Although God without question implies a level of religious thought, I am not an especially religious man. I think of God not as the divine being He may or may not be, but as an eternally lonely being. For, who is He, with His infinite power and zero responsibility, that creates an entire universe with a planet of billions to be equally alone in the cosmos. To be but one grain of sand in the sandbox with but one child. And who is He that compels others to worship Him without having any reason for his existence except that they believe he does?

If a tree falls in a forest, it matters not if anyone hears. If God sits alone in a universe of his own creation, who bears witness to his sound? When I pencil a stickman, it’s not the stickman’s belief that I exist that makes me believe I do, it’s the others around me that live the same life as me. It’s the idea of being lost, alone, and forgotten like this that scares me most. I remember my own mortality not when the broad strokes of life show themselves, but in the smallest accidental details. If I spit in the sand, no one, for all time, will know - let alone care. No one will ever have a story of my life that is more complete than the stories I write in an unsatisfying and short collection. In three hundred years, if I’m not one of the greats of our time, I will be nothing. But these concerns are those of a mortal. God isn’t concerned with how He will be forgotten after He passes, for there’s no one to remember Him even as He lives. In this way, I don’t ponder the existence of God, for it makes no difference to me if the stickman believes I exist.
___
It’s often hard to understand the idea of something incomprehensible. Of course, nothing would be incomprehensible if we could understand it, but just the idea of something I would never fathom seemed, when I was younger, impossible. More recently, as my life has dwindled down to its final light, I’ve come to not only recognize the times in my life that I will never truly understand, but I’ve come to accept that fact, and to embrace it as I recount my life’s mysteries.

I now entertain the idea of incomprehensibility with the imagining of a smaller being. Picture a bird flying through an ajar window, quickly becoming trapped by glass. To the bird, there is no sense that it’s stuck, no claustrophobia and no panic - and why should it panic? It’s only moved to another space. There is no concept of a room or a window in that bird’s mind, so why is the chandelier it now perches on any different from a tree branch? It’s only when the creature decides it wants to return home for the night, or move onto a new branch, that it notices it can’t leave. As far as it can see, there’s no reason it shouldn’t be able to, but whenever it gets up to flutter up towards the blue, it is stopped.

In my life I’ve experienced this very same predicament. Even now there seems to me no reason for my entrapment, for a long while I didn’t even know I was stuck, but I don’t seem to have left anywhere truly behind me. Maybe to some higher being the window I flew through is clear, maybe they have a broom and are trying to push me towards the safest exit - one that I still am not sure I made it through.
___
Death is the ultimate unknowability, and the ultimate proof or disproof of God. In my younger years it was easy to think of death as an escape, as the ultimate answer to my problems, but then it was only an extension of life. Turning the idea of death among my thoughts I more often thought of how it might affect those still living than myself. Furthermore, always having an exit made everything else all the more bearable, even if I never took that route, just having a fire escape makes the building feel protected.

I had this escape in the back of my mind until sometime in my mid-twenties when the sunk-cost fallacy set in. At the risk of going too far into the mathematical world, I think of my life in terms of a harmonic series, that is, each year I live accelerates in my perceived time. The first year I’m alive is 100% of my life, but the second is 50%. This series continues, where each year follows the pattern of 1/n in my perceived time, where n is my age. If I am to live to 83, and my whole life can be expressed mathematically as the summation of the harmonic series from n=1 to n=83, I am to live 5 times the first year of my life. I divide my life where each equivalent of that first year passes - between 1 and 4, 4 and 11, 11 and 31, and 31 and 83. By this - rather arbitrary - logic, I’d already lived half of my life by the time I turned 19, so by my mid-twenties I’d given up on the fire escape. If half my life was already gone, why not just finish it up.

From here on death meant something else, not only was I for the first time facing the deaths of those around me, but I was becoming more afraid of what my escape might mean. I wasn’t so concerned with the idea of an afterlife, but obsessed with what it might mean to become nothing: to have my mind shut off and never return. Returning to the safety of metaphors, I stopped worrying about the fastest route to the fire escape, and started fretting about making sure the building wasn’t turned to ashes.