## The Long Death

The last work of art will not be full of color. It will not be so grand in scale as to overwhelm the individual into an ant. It will not unite. It may not be seen at all, or if it is, may not be remarked upon. It will not be the dying light or the last hurrah. The last work of art will not be new, or unique, or original. The last work of art will be mundane and it will be plain and it will be repetitive and it will be everything.

---

Richard Hale's passing was silent and peaceful and wasn't noticed until this morning when Mrs. Yawen Hale found he hadn't gotten out of bed earlier than she had like he usually did. Sometime in the night his heart had stopped beating and the blood in his veins had stopped flowing and the neurons in his brain fired for the very last time. There was nothing particularly wrong with Richard's health, but his old age made his passing unsurprising. Yawen's grief is short, for she knows she'll be with him soon enough.

Mrs. Hale calls the funeral home first, then her daughter, Olive, who lives only a short distance away and begins her drive over – the death of her father was expected but still affects her more than her mother. The rest of the day isn't much different for Yawen than her regular routine: together with her daughter she cleans the kitchen, makes two coffees, and steps outside to water the plants.

After Richard's body is carried out in the early afternoon Olive cries for the second time that day. Yawen makes the guest bed while Olive tells her husband she will be staying with her mother for a few days and then the two women go to Richard's favorite restaurant for dinner where the manager recognizes the absence and pours two glasses of wine.

Over the following days Yawen makes the calls she hadn't made on the first day, telling the rest of her extended family and friends about Richard's death; Olive helps her mother prepare for the funeral. They clean the house and sort his possessions into those which should be given away or sold and those which they want to keep. Among the kept possessions is a large vertical landscape of a mountain he'd painted on a family trip when Olive was a child. The painting isn't particularly well done, and both he and they knew it, but it had always been a favorite of his and the work he was most proud of, so they decide it should be on display at the funeral's reception, which would be held in the garden and the back room of the house which opened into it.

The funeral is a small affair, not because Richard was in anyway unpopular, rather, he'd outlasted most of his friends and the family isn't so large. Beyond Yawen, Olive and her husband, and the few friends who'd survived him, there is his sister and her husband and sons, Yawen's sister, and a couple younger adults who Richard had grown close to during his time volunteering at the university. Olive, Yawen, and a friend give brief but heartfelt eulogies before walking with the group to watch the burial. Olive cries more deeply now, but this is the final time she does so.

The repast is not so sombre and stories of Richard are told and laughed about over cake while the group sits on the lawn chairs Olive's husband had arranged in a circle earlier in the day. Olive laughs about when he drove her to the wrong university when she was supposed to move in and one of the university alums recounts how a conversation he'd had with the man had driven him to work in an entirely different industry than he had originally planned. This alum thinks about the counsel he received from this man often and will let it guide his path until the end.

For the rest of Yawen's life she thinks of the man she'd married every day. The change in her routine from making two coffees in the morning to only one serves as the smallest but most persistent reminder of his absence. Olive's son is too young to remember much about his grandfather, but his mother and grandmother tell tales of him often.

Yawen passes in a manner very similar to her husband and at an age of just one year younger than he was. She'd hired a gardener the month before as the work became too difficult for her failing body and he was the first to notice her expiration when she didn't go to let him in the back that afternoon. He called Olive who wept before echoing the actions her mother had taken two years before. She thinks of her father and her parents' long relationship frequently over the following days. At Yawen's reception Olive speaks about how her parents had met and their love for each other. The painting still hung where it had been moved before and the mountains now seemed distant and fantastical.

Olive has her husband help organize her parents' belongings and clean the house before selling all that doesn't hold some sentimental value or utility. She keeps the nicer silverware and dishes, a set of chairs, some of her favorite books, her mother's collection of pins, and her father's painting.

As Olive's son, James, grows up, he occasionally thinks about grandparents, but remembers little about them. Early in grade school he works on a class project where he assembles a family tree and a short biography of each member of his family. For Richard he writes, "My grandpa on my mom's side liked to draw pictures a lot and he had a big house." In University he grows faintly more interested in his heritage – he asks his parents about their parents and listens to their stories more intently than he had before.

Olive sees more and more of her parents in herself as she ages and picks up painting after retirement. She remembers her father's almost giddy reaction upon learning he'd become a grandfather and found she had a similar one when James and his wife announced the news to her.

When James' mother grows ill and later passes he recalls what she'd told him about getting through her father's death, and he cries. She'd been living in his house in her final years, so many of her belongings had already been sold or given away, but she'd kept her parents' mugs, her mother's pins, and her father's painting. James regularly drinks his coffee out of the same mug his grandfather had nearly half a century before, but he doesn't have the same sentimental attachment to his grandparents' possessions as his mother had, so he sells the pins and gives the painting to the university alum, Scott, who had been so affected by his conversation with Richard.

When Scott is old and moves into a retirement home he decides to let go of the painting, thinking still of Richard and wondering what he might say to him now.

Once Scott is gone, James is the only one left who ever met his grandfather.

Once James is gone, no one remembers Richard.

A time later, a girl finds a painting among a disorganized heap of others. The painting is of some snow-capped mountains backing a serene-looking green lake. A number of animals sit to the side near a collection of trees represented by only a few vague brush strokes. The canvas is taller than it is wide and the face of the largest mountain takes up most of the scene, textured with fine detail in a way that inevitably reminds the viewer of the impressive scale of the rocks and of their own relative minuteness. A small sliver of sky and clouds takes up the top fifth – it's some time in the late morning and the clouds are small and sparse. The girl looks at the painting for only a moment before moving to look at the next, but slows when she sees the signature. In the bottom right corner an elegant and clearly practiced pair of letters is written: "RH". She wonders who the person was that painted the picture. This is the very last time Richard Hale will ever be thought about.


All evidence of Richard having existed has been observed for the final time. His life may have ended long ago, but it is only now that he finally dies and ceases to be, gone as if he never was.

Richard Hale's passing was silent and peaceful and – like the true death of all – wasn't noticed.

---

Somewhere at the end of time the final creation of man doesn't move, doesn't react, and doesn't think. It preserves all humanity despite there being no more humans left. The machine remembers. It remembers the beginning and the end and it remembers the good times and the bad times and it remembers the greats and it remembers itself. The last work of art will be experienced by only itself, remembering everything that ever was and loving everything that ever was. The last work of art will remember Richard Hale.