## Untitled

The Summer of 2036 was a dark one. The sun never showed itself, preferring to hide behind a thick blanket of black smoke, and yet its presence could always be felt through both the beating waves of heat it threw upon the barren landscape and through its insect children - the only beings suited to the fiery dust. Where rolling hills of green had resided only a few years before dunes of sand had blown in from farther West and ash from the sky to form great deserts. At night, when the temperatures dropped to just under the level of heat that scorched your skin during the day, the smoky skies morphed to a color that so closely matched that of the ashy dunes that one world not be able to tell the difference between the heaven above from the hell on our ground if it were not for the shackles of gravity that tied us to our torment and the lights that sometimes poked through the smog to remind us of our place.

After the First Collapse of 2023, after the gods of death were born to the sky, after each once powerful nation shattered into a hundred splinters and we were made to choose a side, a mandatory draft was put in place that chose foot-soldiers and sacrifices indiscriminately. At first it seemed as if there was a cause behind each battle, something that was being fought for or defended from, but as we racked up experience in the field - fought so many battles that one had barely trickled to its end before it was bleeding into the dreadful pain of the next - we began to realize not only that the battles were pointless, but also that we couldn’t stop. That is to say, though we had lost the sense of who we were serving and any loyalty we thought we had had to that side, each mission they gave us seemed so carefully planned that we had no choice but to complete it.

By 2030 - only two years after the fighting began - all sides had completely exhausted their resources. And yet the East wouldn’t accept an end to our fighting, openly proclaiming that they needed land, not people, so it would benefit them most if we simply killed ourselves off. To this end the megacorporations of the East began to sponsor our battles. Not sides, but battles. They hoped not for a decisive victory of any one nation, but to create the most bloodshed they could. No one was in any position to deny their help, for that would mean elimination by the ones who accepted it.

It was around a quarter-way through this dark Summer that the chain of events that took me from what I thought to be Hell began, but it wasn’t for another month or so that I noticed how the piling of events from the previous few weeks had started to weave into a convoluted web of oddly timed coincidences and perfectly formed tragedies that had no right to claim to be truly random.

After seven years of fighting, one battle so often seemed identical to those before and after that I barely remember a single battle from beginning to end, a fact not helped by the stress-suppression pills they gave us. I tell you this not as a testament to my faulty human memory, but so that you may accept my excuse that I recall nothing of the combat that occurred directly before the appearance of the individual who would by their mere presence act as the start of this fateful chain of events. I remember nothing of who in our company died that day or what damages we inflicted on the enemy. I remember nothing of who we fought or how quickly after it started the shooting had ended.

All I remember from that day is the image, forever frozen in my mind, of a young girl - no more than nine - standing in a pristine pale blue dress on a dune among the flames of the struggle which had only just ended. She stared into the distance just above my shoulder with a frown and a furrowed brow, but when looking into her eyes I could see a sort of out-of-place calmness that resided within her. Not the kind of calm that came from stress-suppression pills. It was the calm that could only come from a natural predisposition to be calm. A calmness that made it clear that the girl was in some way superior to the beings with which she was now in close proximity to, but didn’t falsify the face of confusion that she held behind her soft gaze. She carried herself with a maturity that said she knew more than you, but also with a naivety that said she was still just a child, and that there was so much more for her to know in the years to come. The girl’s dress, almost white in how lightly tinted blue it was, contrasted with her dark skin tone - a rich brown tone that was so far from the grays and oranges that dominated the landscape behind her - in a way that made her look like a doll from some nicer place that had been dropped accidentally into the fire-pit in which she now stood.

For a moment time stood still as the image was stored in my mind like a photograph in an album: I may have lost all context, but I will never lose that memory.